[TM] chp1: Update the prepare data instructions (#3297)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/training_manual/foreword/preparing_data.rst

#. Open a new QGIS project.
#. Select :menuselection:`Layer --> Data Source Manager` to open the
   :guilabel:`Data Source Manager` dialog.
#. In the :guilabel:`Browser` tab, expand the :guilabel:`XYZ Tiles` drop-down menu
   and double-click the :guilabel:`OpenStreetMap` item.

   .. image:: img/browser_xyztiles.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 60

   A map of the world is now visible on the map canvas.
#. Close the :guilabel:`Data Source Manager` dialog.
#. Move to the area you'd like to use as study area.

   .. image:: img/swellendam_neighborhood.png
      :align: center
      :scale: 60

Now that we have the area we'll extract the data from, let's enable the extraction
tools.

#. Go to :menuselection:`Plugins --> Manage/Install Plugins...`.
#. In the :guilabel:`All` tab, type ``QuickOSM`` in the search box.
#. Select the QuickOSM plugin, press :guilabel:`Install Plugin` and then :guilabel:`Close`
   the dialog.

   .. image:: img/quickosm_plugin_download.png
      :align: center

#. Execute the new plugin from :menuselection:`Vector --> QuickOSM -->
   QuickOSM...` menu.
#. In the :guilabel:`Quick query` tab, select ``building`` in the :guilabel:`Key`
   drop-down menu.

> #. Leave empty the :guilabel:`Value` field, meaning that you are querying all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Leave the :guilabel:`Value` field empty, meaning that you are querying all
```

   buildings.
#. Select :guilabel:`Canvas Extent` in the next drop-down menu.

> #. Expand the :guilabel:`Advanced` group below and uncheck on the right all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Expand the :guilabel:`Advanced` group below and uncheck all
```

>    geometry types except :guilabel:`Multipolygons`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   geometry types on the right except :guilabel:`Multipolygons`.
```

   buildings in the selected extent.
#. Proceed as above to extract other data:

   #. ``Key = landuse`` and ``Multipolygons`` geometry type.
   #. ``Key = boundary``, ``Value = protected_area`` and ``Multipolygons``
      geometry type.
   #. ``Key = natural``, ``Value = water`` and ``Multipolygons`` geometry type.
   #. ``Key = highway`` and check ``Lines`` and ``Multilines`` geometry types.
   #. ``Key = waterway``, ``Value = river`` and check ``Lines`` and ``Multilines``
      geometry types.
   #. ``Key = place`` and ``Points`` geometry type.

> The above process adds the layers as temporary files (indicated by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process adds the layers as temporary files (indicated by the
```

|indicatorMemory| icon next to their name).

.. image:: img/osm_data_loaded.png
  :align: center

You can sample the data your region contains in order to see what kind of
results your region will yield.

> We now need to save the resulting data in permanent formats to use during your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now need to save the resulting data to use during your
```

course. We'll be using ESRI Shapefile, GeoPackage and SpatiaLite formats
depending on the data.

To convert the :guilabel:`place` temporary layer to another format:

> #. Click the |indicatorMemory| icon next to the :guilabel:`place` layer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the |indicatorMemory| icon next to the :guilabel:`place` layer
```

>    opening the :guilabel:`Save Scratch Layer` dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to open the :guilabel:`Save Scratch Layer` dialog.
```

>    .. note:: If you need to replace some particular properties (CRS, extent,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. note:: If you need to change any of the temporary layer's properties (CRS, extent,
```

>     fields...) of the temporary layer, use instead the :menuselection:`Export

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    fields...), use the :menuselection:`Export
```

>     --> Save Features as...` contextual menu, and ensure the :guilabel:`Add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --> Save Features as...` contextual menu instead, and ensure the :guilabel:`Add
```

>     saved file to map` option is checked. A new layer is added in such case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    saved file to map` option is checked. This adds a new layer.
```

#. Select the :guilabel:`ESRI Shapefile` format.
#. Use the :guilabel:`...` button to browse to the :file:`exercise_data/shapefile/`
   folder and save the file as :file:`places.shp`.

   .. image:: img/save_osm_place.png
      :align: center

#. Press :guilabel:`OK`.

   In the :guilabel:`Layers` panel, the temporary :guilabel:`place` layer is

>    swapped in place with the saved :guilabel:`places` shapefile layer and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   replaced with the saved :guilabel:`places` shapefile layer and
```

   the temporary icon next to it removed.
#. Double-click the layer to open its :menuselection:`Layer Properties -->
   Source` tab and update the :guilabel:`Layer name` property to match the file
   name.

#. Repeat the process for other layers, renaming them as follows:

   * ``natural_water`` into ``water``;
   * ``waterway_river`` into ``rivers``;
   * ``boundary_protected_area`` into ``protected_areas``.

   Each resulting data set should be saved in the :file:`exercise_data/shapefile/`
   directory.

The next step is to create a GeoPackage file from the :guilabel:`building` layer
to use during the course:

#. Click the |indicatorMemory| icon next to the :guilabel:`building` layer.
#. Select the :guilabel:`GeoPackage` format.
#. Save the file as :file:`training_data.gpkg` under the :file:`exercise_data/`
   folder.
#. By default, the :guilabel:`Layer name` is filled as the file name.
   Replace it with ``buildings``.

   .. image:: img/save_osm_building.png
      :align: center

#. Press :guilabel:`OK`.

> #. Rename properly the layer in its properties dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Rename the layer in its properties dialog.
```

> #. Repeat the process with the :guilabel:`highway` layer saved as ``roads`` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Repeat the process with the :guilabel:`highway` layer, saving it as ``roads`` in
```

>    the GeoPackage database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the same GeoPackage database.
```

> The last step is to create a SpatiaLite file with the remaining temporary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to save the remaining temporary file as a SpatiaLite file.
```

> file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You should now have a map which looks something like this (the symbology will

> certainly be very different, but that is fine):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certainly be very different, because QGIS randomly assigns colours when layers are added to the map):
```
